Docs: unified alerting message templating (#35023)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/unified-alerting/contact-points.md

# Contact points

Contact points define where to send notifications about alerts that match a particular [notification policy]({{< relref "./notification-policies.md" >}}). A contact point can contain one or more contact point types, eg email, slack, webhook and so on. A notification will dispatched to all contact point types defined on a contact point. [Templating]({{< relref "./message-templating.md" >}}) can be used to customize contact point type message with alert data. Grafana alerting UI can be used to configure both Grafana managed contact points and contact points for an [external Alertmanager if one is configured]({{< relref "../../datasources/alertmanager.md" >}}).

> ## Adding a contact point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a contact point
```

[Webhook](#webhook) | `webhook`
[Zenduty](#zenduty) | `webhook` 

> ## Managing contact points for an external Alertmanager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage contact points for an external Alertmanager
```

> Grafana alerting UI supports managing external Alertmanager configuration. Add an [Alertmanager datasource]({{< relref "../../datasources/alertmanager.md" >}}) and a dropdown will appear at the top of the page, allowing you to select either `Grafana` or an external Alertmanager. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana alerting UI supports managing external Alertmanager configuration. Once you add an [Alertmanager data source]({{< relref "../../datasources/alertmanager.md" >}}), a dropdown displays at the top of the page where you can select either `Grafana` or an external Alertmanager as your data source. 
```

{{< figure max-width="40%" src="/static/img/docs/alerting/unified/contact-points-select-am-8-0.gif" caption="Select Alertmanager" >}}

> ### Editing Alertmanager global config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit Alertmanager global config
```

To edit global configuration options for an alertmanager, like SMTP server that is used by default for all email contact types:

1. In the Grafana side bar, hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon and then click **Contact points**.

> 1. In the dropdown at the top of the page, select a Alertmanager datasource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the dropdown at the top of the page, select an Alertmanager data source.
```

1. Click **Edit global config** button at the bottom of the page.
1. Fill out the form and click **Save global config**.

> **Note** this is only for external Alertmanagers. Some global options for Grafana contact types, like email settings, can be configured via [Grafana configuration]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** This is only for external Alertmanagers. Some global options for Grafana contact types, like email settings, can be configured via [Grafana configuration]({{< relref "../../administration/configuration.md" >}}).
```
